From Hansel minutes.com it's Hansel
minutes, a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologists. Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number two 14. Recorded
live Thursday, May 6th, 2010. Support for
Hanselman it's is provided by
teller rad controls, the most
comprehensive suite of components for
windows forms and asp.net web
applications are mine@wwwdottelerik.com. In this
episode, Scott talks with Gary Schmidt
about being active with type
one diabetes. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman, and this is
another episode of Hansel minutes.
And today I'm chatting with
Gary Schmidt. Gary is a type
one diabetic like myself, and
he is also a incredibly
fit individual. He's a triathlete.
And I thought it would
be interesting to have him
on the show because I
used to be fit and
then became diabetic and Gary
is diabetic and is fit
and he must know something.
I don't know. So thanks
so much, Gary, for coming
on the show and helping
me figure this out. No
problem, Scott. Thanks for having
me. So how long have
you been diabetic? I was
diagnosed in December of 2002,
so just a little over
seven years. Okay. And how
old were you when you,
when you were diagnosed at
28, 28. So give us
the, give us the story
a little bit and remember
that we've got a lot
of international listeners and we've
got a lot of non
non-diabetic. So talk a little
bit about when you were
diagnosed and what you thought
and the different kinds of
diabetes and whether or not
it was unusual for this
to happen to you at
28. Yeah, sure. Yeah. So
it was a fall of
2002, and I had a
lot of the same symptoms
that a lot of other
folks that get diagnosed with
this, have I, all of
a sudden I was thirsty
all the time. I was
really tired. I had to
go to the bathroom all
the time, had urinate all
the time and my vision
got really blurry and I
had always had really good
vision. So it was kind
of bothered me a little
bit. So I had all
these kinds of things and,
and, and then over the
course of just a couple
of weeks, I lost about
20 pounds and I'm, I'm
65 and I weigh about
200 pounds. So I dropped
down to about one 80,
really, really fast. And I
remember I was at work
one day and went to
the restaurant work and looked
in the mirror and I
thought to myself, I'm dying.
I really had no idea
what was going on at
all. So finally made appointment
to go see my doctor.
And at this point, my
vision had started to kind
of go back to normal.
So I thought maybe things
were going to be fine.
Went visited him. They did
some tests. And then a
few days later was talking
on the phone with the
doctor's nurse, and then I'm
trying to figure out, figure
out what the diagnosis was.
And she said that the
doctor say anything about diabetes,
and I didn't know anything
about diabetes at all. And
I thought it was kind
of a immediate death sentence.
So I quickly did some
research and, and learn that
that wasn't necessarily the case.
I was initially diagnosed with
type two, which is something
that happens a lot to
adults that are diagnosed kind
of later on in life
with type one, you know,
and I wasn't the, you
know, the typical kind of
person that would have type
two, you know, the typical
kind of overweight, maybe kind
of person. So it was
kind of odd diagnosis, but,
but through diet and exercise
and some oral medications, I
was able to control it
for a while, but then
eventually I wasn't able to
control that. And I went
to a dietician to try
to get some help, to
try to see what I
could do with my diet.
And she asked me what
kind of insulin I was
on and I wasn't on
insulin. So soon after that,
she kind of put me
in touch with another doctor,
an endocrinologist, and he, you
know, quickly diagnosed me as
type one, meaning that my
body does not produce insulin
at all, meaning that I
would be, I'd have to
produce my own insulin or,
you know, I'd have to
take shots or some other
way, like an insulin pump
only for the rest of
my life. So, so it
was kind of a, it's
a normal thing. When I
talk to other adults that
are diagnosed with type one
diabetes, they almost kind of
go through the similar kind
of thing. I don't know
Scott did. Is that kinda
the way it went with
you? Cause you were what,
21 when you, when you
were Right. So I was
diagnosed in December, no, November
of my 20th year. So
when would it have been
to 1994? Somewhere in there?
Yeah. Somewhere in December of
94 and December 93, I'd
have to look it up.
So it's been 15, 16
years at this point and
I will, I'm about five
11. I like to say
I'm six foot, but I'm
five 11. And I went
from about 180 pounds to
about one 41 45. Wow.
I mean, I was just
hanging bones off of me
and I was peeing all
the time. I was peeing
constantly and I could not
believe how thirsty I was,
but you're on your end.
You're a young person. So
you just, what do you
do if you're thirsty when
you get some mountain Dew
and I was just to
fish, to drinker, I would
have two liter bottles of
mountain Dew in both hands
and just walk around drinking
mountain Dew, figuring that I
just get enough. You know,
I was dehydrated from my
point of view and I
drank an obscene amount of
mountain Dew and got, and
kind of, I basically turned
to gray. My body turned
gray. And for the people
who are listening, who haven't
quite got the context yet,
there's two kinds of diabetes.
There's there's type one and
there's type two type one,
diabetics produce no insulin. And
they are literally missing something
while type two diabetics are
resistant to their own insulin
effectively. They've basically use the
drug so much that they
are, they are resistant to
it. And most people overseas
think of this as, as
a juvenile diabetes and an
adult diabetes. And that sounds
like what happened to you
that even your, your doctor
here in the U S
just assumed while you're, you're
almost 30. So you must
be the old guy diabetes
and not the young guy
diabetes, but that seems to
have changed. And actually I
had two different doctors at
that time. I, the one
that diagnosed me and then
we actually moved and I
had a different doctor and
this new doctor, you know,
I was type two. You
know, it didn't even occur
to him that I might
not be type two. So
I had, I had to,
you know, normal primary care
physicians that completely missed it.
And this is the struggle
with diabetics is that there's,
you're in the States. Of
course the primary care physician
is really a general practitioner.
And then there's the notion
of an endocrinologist. And, you
know, if you break a
bone, you usually go to
a specific kind of person
to have that looked at.
And if you have a
heart attack, you go to
a specific kind of person.
But if you're feeling sick
all the time at P
and all the time, you
go to your regular doctor,
and if they think they
can fix it with a
pill, they'll, you know, they'll
try to do that. And
unfortunately that for diabetics, we
can spend years, even I
spent a year and a
half as, as a 20
year old diagnosed as a
type two diabetic, which didn't
make any sense. I didn't
have any of the symptoms,
but that, that, that looked
like type two diabetes. And
I ended up taking pills
for awhile, just like you
did. And it's tragic because
the time that I wasted
doing that was, And so,
so initially your, your body
is, is still working. It's
still producing some insulin. And
then over the course of,
you know, whatever it is,
I was probably the same
way a year, year and
a half, something like that,
all of a sudden you're
then you just kind of,
it stops. And then it
takes a long time to
really get to the point
where I guess you're not
producing any. So, you know,
you start out with having
to use very little insulin
and then gradually started using
more and to kind of
level out. Right. And because
we don't produce any insulin
folks who are listening, we,
we have to bring it
in. We have to get
that insulin in. So it
sounds you're you're Gary's doctor
was saying, I think that
you have insulin in you.
You're just not using it
very well. So we'll give
you pills that will make
it work better. And then
when you ran out, when
you find, when your pancreas
finally gave up the ghost,
did they put you immediately
on shots? And did you
have to go and learn
the whole? Yeah. Yeah. I
was starting to took Lantis,
which is a long acting
insulin that generally covers like
12 to 24 hours, something
like that. And then to
cover my meals, I use
an insulin pen. So just
as a little, it looks
like a pen, a little
needle with some insulin loaded
in it. And then you
dial up the amount of
insulin for the number of
carbs you're going to eat.
So if I'm going to
eat, I dunno, say 15
grams of carbs or something
like that. I would, that
kind of equates to one
unit of insulin. So I
dial it up on a
pen, can myself that one
injection and then away I
went. And that, that ratio
that you just mentioned is
so important. Diabetes is surprisingly
about a math, isn't it?
I mean, you just find
yourself doing all sorts of
math in your head that
you would never think about.
Yeah, absolutely. You know, if
you're doing multiple daily injections.
Yeah. There's, there's a lot
of math, fortunately, you and
I both use an insulin
pump, which it does a
lot of that thinking for
us. One of the good
things with the insulin pump
is that you can set
different ratios throughout the day.
You'll you'll find, I know,
I know I do. I'm
not sure if you do
Scott, but throughout the day,
I have to use different
ratios to cover my meals.
So, so the pump helps
a little bit with that.
I don't know if you
want to talk about the
pump a little bit. Well,
I do. So you, you
used needles for a while
and I did too. I
spent five years sticking myself.
And initially when they teach
you this, they tell you
to just do it a
couple of times a day,
morning and night. And I
realized pretty quickly, somewhere in
the first three years, that,
that as well, as much
as my doctor was a
good person and appreciated, and
I appreciated their effort. They
were not going to care
about me 24 hours a
day. And no one was
going to take care of
me except myself. And I
think that most diabetics come
to that realization. Right? Absolutely.
So then I said, I
gotta get this figured out.
And someone suggested a pump.
How long do you got
upon a pump? It was,
I don't know, probably a
year and a half or
two years. I think. Not,
not too long. One of
the biggest things for me
was when I was just
giving myself injections, I kind
of felt like, you know,
okay, here's my meal, give
myself an injection. And then
I'm sort of not diabetic
for a little while until
I have to do it
again. When I was trying
to decide whether or not
to go into the pump,
I'm hooked to this thing
24 seven. And so, so
again, it took me a
little bit to kind of
get over that. It's like,
you know, now it's like,
I'm always diabetic. So it's
kind of a weird thing
now of course, after using
it for a while, you
realize, you know, at least
for me is the way
to go. And I can't
imagine living without it, but
it definitely was a big
change for me. Yeah. There's
a psychological thing. I remember,
I think I was 25
and they, and the pump
educator came in and this
is a registered nurse. Who's
there to teach you how
to use this pump and
the pump. I've got a
video up that I'll put
in the show notes that
I, I show people how
I plug my pump in.
And it basically plugs into
us. You know, I keep
mining for about three to
six days basically until I
run, run out of insulin
and it pushes the insulin
into you. So you don't
have to stick yourself all
the time. But man, when
she came and taught me
how to use it, I
broke down. I started crying
because I just realized that
I've suddenly, I've sit in
here with an external organ
that I can't afford lose.
It was very psychologically difficult.
Yep. Absolutely. It's just, it's
hanging off of you every
day, all day. It was
a big change, but I
think it's a great tool
that we get to use.
And we're very fortunate that
we have that at our
disposal. Now, were you physically
fit when you became diabetic
or wouldn't come in? I
mean, how did you go
from diabetic to triathlete? Because
I find I've got to
be, this makes it difficult
for me to exercise. Yeah.
It, it, it definitely is
a challenge. And I, I
think, you know, growing up,
I was always very athletic,
probably near the time I
was diagnosed. I was not
quite as, as athletic. I
started actually getting back into
it after I was diagnosed.
So it's a way to
help me. It helps you
use the insulin better. It
it's really hard. It's a
real challenge. There's a lot
of stuff that I have
to deal with on a
daily basis that other folks
don't have to, but in
the long run, the benefits
definitely outweigh all of the
trouble that it causes and
all the challenges. One of
the metrics that I use
that is like the actually
it's really become my primary
metric 15 years into it
now is the total amount
of insulin that I use
in a single day. And
that total amount I feel
like tells me how I'm
doing as a, as a
diabetic. And I started out
using about 20 units of
insulin a day, total when
I was very, very thin
and very young, 15 years
ago. And then I used
30 units a day total.
So that's, that's complete usage
of insulin every single day.
And then in the last
two or three years, it's
gone up to 40 units
a day. Do you think
about things in that context
and has exercise changed that
I was actually just trying
to look at my pump
to see what my numbers
are. I don't know. I
think that, I think it
is, I'm talking about like
in the larger macro scope,
like five years ago, did
you use less or more?
You know what I'm saying?
Yeah. Hmm. I don't know.
I think I've probably used
a little bit less, but,
but then again, I, I
don't know. I think I'm
still towards maybe the tail
end of the honeymoon phase.
So, you know, five years
ago, I probably wasn't using
very much at all, but
I, I would think that
since I've been exercising and
running and doing triathlons, the
amount of insulin that I,
my, you know, my daily
amount has definitely gone down.
And I think if we
eliminate that, I think it's
a good thing. And the
honeymoon period that you just
referred to, what is the
honeymoon period? It's just the,
the amount of time from
when you know, your, your
pancreas is producing insulin and,
and doing what it's supposed
to do that kind of
tapers off over a period
of time. And so over
a period of time, you'll
need less or more and
more insulin from the pump
or from a syringe to,
to help make up for
that deficiency. Hey, it's alternate
universe, Scott Hanselman going to
thank our sponsors for making
this free show possible. We've
been doing Hansel minutes for
almost four years now, and
we really couldn't do it
without Tellerik. So I want
to tell you about some
of the stuff they're working
on. If you've already started
developing with Silverlight and you'll
probably need a solid testing
tool to do your several
at UIs, unfortunately though, a
lot of the tools available
today only help you with
unit testing. There's not really
a good way to simulate
the actual behavior of those
end users, unless you spend
days and weeks doing a
lot of manual testing, but
the guys at Tellerik, you've
got a new point and
click UI testing tool for
server line called web UI
test studio. The beauty is
that you can quickly record
your tests with a cross-browser
recorder. You can enrich them
with code if you've got
really complex scenarios. And on
top of that, it supports
all the standard controls, as
well as the Tellerik enhanced
controls. You can verify not
only several lines, but even
complex Ajax applications, best part
web UI test studio lives
in visual studio. So you
don't have to leave your
favorite development environment. You check
it out at tellerik.com/web hyphen
testing, hyphen tools, and be
sure to thank Tellerik for
supporting the show on their
Facebook fan page at facebook.com/tellerik.
The honeymoon period is really
painful from a it's really
painful because it's almost like
the universe is teasing. You
I've seen a lot of
people who have a child
get diagnosed with diabetes, and
then they do, they do
everything right, and they go
to all their classes and
then they take their insulin.
And then one day they
don't need insulin for maybe
three, four, five days, or
they start using tiny amounts
of insulin and they think,
Oh, we've beat it. We
figured it out. And that's
that? That's the honeymoon period
where the body makes its
last gasp of a trying
to fix it. And then
it finally, the pancreas gives
it up. So when, when
we work out, your insulin
is used more effectively. And
when you work out your
blood sugar drops, I found
that the number one thing
that can lower my blood
sugar is his yard work.
And I'll literally, if I'm
going to have a low
blood sugar, it will be
doing, doing yard work. The
thing that I struggle with
when I'm exercising and with
diabetes is that I sometimes
end up eating more food
than I would have ordinarily
that day. So I don't,
I didn't actually lose any
weight like in a regular
day, if I don't work
out, I'm not going to
have a power bar, but
if I work out and
I have a low blood
sugar, there's no choice, but
to, but to eat. And
then when you do the
math and inevitably, I ended
up giving myself more food
than I would have. How
can I work out and
lose weight? And I keep
putting calories in myself. Yeah,
it is. It's really tough.
There are those days if
I have a hard workout
in the morning and I
don't do kind of what
I need to do, and
I'll talk about that a
little bit, you know, some
of the things I need
to do to prevent the
lows, you know, I'll find
myself thrown down two, three
pop tarts, you know, especially
like on a Saturday, if
I'm out, you said doing
yard work or doing something
like that, then I'm going
to have some more, I
mean, I I'm, I'm eating
a lot of calories to
try to, to, to fix
my lows. So it definitely
is a challenge now, fortunately,
I don't know. I don't
have that issue. I probably,
I eat a lot of
things, calories, but I also
burn a lot of calories.
So it's hard for me
to talk, talk to that,
but I definitely see how
that's, that's an issue with
somebody. And I think the
main thing is learn how
to kind of control those
lows and identify some of
the things that will make
you go low. Like you
said, yard work. So let
me talk about a little
bit about like what I'll
do for a normal day
when I go running. But
the one thing that, the
main thing, I guess, for
a type one, diabetic is
paying attention to the amount
of insulin they have on,
on board. And so that's
kind of the amount of
insulin that's in your system.
So if you eat a
big meal, give yourself 16
units of insulin, it's going
to take anywhere three to
five, something like that hours
for that insulin to kind
of go away. So what
I have to be very
careful about is eating, giving
myself a lot of insulin
and then going for a
run. I just can't do
that. It's it would cause
a big problem for me.
So I don't have the
luxury like right now, I
couldn't go out and go
for a run. Cause if
I did my blood sugar
would just tank. So I
have to prepare. So normally
what I do, especially for
running two hours prior to
Iran, I will lower my
Bazell amount. And I don't
think we've talked about what
nasal is, but basically the
background insulin that's that's given
through the pump throughout the
day. So it's just a
tiny amount of insulin all
day long. And it's kind
of mimic sort of your
body would normally do. So
the pump I have the
luxury of, of BML being
able to dial that back.
So two hours before I
run, I'll lower that by
about 50%, maybe 40%. And
then I'll go for my
run and that usually will
prevent, you know, I can
go for an hour long
run and not have to
eat anything during the run.
And I'll be okay right
before the run, I do
eat about 20 or 30
cars to kind of level
things out, but it says
20, 30 carbs. That's like
a, you know, a granola
bar or normally what I
do is like a peanut
butter crackers or something like
that. Just something about, about
five, 10 minutes before I
go out for a run.
I found if I eat
it like right before run,
it just doesn't seem to
do anything. If I wait
too long, then my blood
sugar go high before I
start. But by five or
10 minutes, I'll eat it.
And then that usually will
cover me for an hour
long run and I'll be
good to go. So that's,
that's kinda my morning afterwards.
I don't really have to
do anything special, but I
really have to watch myself
later on in the day
when my body is trying
to recover, it's going to
use upload lot of glucose
and I have to lower
my basal again in the
afternoon for two or three
hours, or I will go
low in the afternoon. So,
and this is because of
the morning run. So you
run at seven in the
morning and you're going to
still be dealing with that
at three in the afternoon.
Absolutely. Yeah. From, you know,
from 8:00 AM till two or
so. I'm fine. But after
that, I'll start to go
low. So yeah, so this
presents a real challenge on
the weekends. So if I
have a super long run
Sunday morning, if I get
done at eight and then
I have to do, I'm
going to do some yard
work or something like that
in the afternoon, I got,
I got a real challenge
because my body's already going
low. Now I'm going to
do another activity. That's going
to cause me to go
low. So this is, those
are the days where I
have a box of pop
tarts. Wow. Can you, can
you talk a little about
what a low feels like
to people a low, because
it's one of the most
difficult things to explain. I
mean, my wife and I
have been married 10 years
and I just, you know,
and when I'm just kind
of lying on the ground,
staring at the ceiling, just
wishing it would stop. She's
really quite helpless. It's a
low is really a horrible
thing, Right? Yeah. It's a,
you know, it's, unfortunately it's
never the same thing, but
kind of a shaky feeling.
You just, if I get
to some point where I'm
pretty low, fairly low, too
low, I can't even think
I can't form sentences. I
just can't do anything shaky.
What are some of the
other things, I guess those
are the main things. Sometimes
I've described people like, you
know, when you're, when your
car is on E and
you don't know if you're
going to make it to
the next gas station and
it feels like the car
that you're driving is starting
to pull the gas from
like the really nasty bottom
part of the gas tank.
And it sputters, it's like
the brain's version of it.
Yeah, yeah. Just kinda, yeah,
weak and dizzy. And I
don't know, it just, everything,
it really is awful. And
it's one of the most
annoying things. And one of
the few, the few times
that I kind of, you
know, I really get upset
and just discouraged and just,
Ugh, why now? That kind
of stuff. And on the
flip side, there's, there's highs
and every diabetic is different,
but you know, sometimes the
family will say, let's go,
let's go for Chinese. And
I'll just say, you know,
I just can't, I just
can't do Chinese food today
because Chinese food is like
notoriously high in sugar, at
least American Chinese food and
notoriously high in fat and
high in carbs. And it's
just between pizza and Chinese
food. There's just really nothing.
There's nothing good for a
diabetic in those, in those
foods. And I'll end up
having a high blood sugar.
How high do you go
in an average week? I
mean, I'll hit two 50
every week if only for
a couple of a couple
of hours. Yeah. Yeah. You
know, I think I was,
I was following you on
Twitter yesterday and you talking
about a, a rollercoaster and
I was riding it with
you yesterday. I swim in
the morning and, and had
woke up with a blood
glucose of 90, which is
great. Right. And the goal,
the goal is 80 to
a hundred, 124 American milligrams
per deciliter. That's for those
who are overseas, there's different
measurements like miles and kilometers,
but we, we try to
keep our blood sugar around
a hundred. Right. Right. So
after my swim, I was
at a hundred great. And
one of the challenges I
have a swimming is going
really high afterwards, especially if
I'll try to eat a
snack afterwards or whatever, but
I shot up to three
40 after my swipes. So
everything, well, I think it
was a combination of the
snack that I had afterwards.
I felt like I was
a little bit low, but
I think I probably wasn't.
So I didn't, I didn't
give myself a bolus. I
didn't give us a very
good bolus for that meal
and just give yourself any
insulin. Yeah. So I totally
underestimated that and shot way
up for those who don't
know what a bolus is.
I'm sorry. Yeah. It's explained.
So we talk about basil
a minute ago and that
is, you know, the little
bit of insulin throughout the
day and bolus is the
other kind to, that. We
take the fast acting to
cover meals that we eat.
So, so, so I totally
blew it, you know, didn't,
didn't guess the right number
of carbs or anything like
that. And I shot up.
So, and like you said,
you know, I was able
to fix that and I
came down fast, but the
fluctuations are, are very frustrating
and, and just kind of
something that we have to
deal with. I wish that
I could have tighter control,
but there's a lot going
on with, with exercising and
trying to do all the
right things with eating and
everything. And it's, it's a
challenge to, to try to
keep it in the right
range. It's depressing because when
you, when you're looking at,
I always, I always tell
people that a low will
kill you a quick and
a high I'll kill. You
slow absolutely. With a low
you're, basically your airplane is
losing altitude and you're going
to crash into the mountain,
but with a low it's,
like your balloon is floating
away and you're all alone
and you're flying through the
sky and no one can
help. And you just have
to bring that balloon down
slowly. But when you're up
there, it's just about the
loneliest feeling. Yeah, absolutely. I,
I, my, my symptom, when
I'm high as a, you
know, kind of sluggish, I
can, I feel real achy
and tired and I kind
of, I play little games
like, am I tired? Or
am I high? Cause a
lot of times I can't
tell the difference between the
two. Yeah. For me, I
can almost taste the sugar.
I feel like I'm marinating
in my own sugar. Like
I can taste it in
my mouth. And I know
that, and I'll ask my
wife if my breast smells,
because my breath will smell
like candy, but I haven't
eaten any candy. And it's
just such a, it's such
a difficult thing to, to
deal with. I, how, how
can I start getting, getting
into, working out to the
level where you've actually done
triathlons, right? Yeah. I am,
I've done a few shorter
ones. I'm going to do
a half iron man, the
September, which is the, the,
the 70 mile version. The
1.2 miles swim, 56 mile
bike, and then a 13
mile run. I haven't committed
to doing a full one
yet, but I will, at
some point, you know, you
gotta, you know, just make
the commitment to do it.
You gotta start off slow,
just so you know, you're
going to be going to
be running or whatever. You're
going to be starting off
running just like anybody else.
So you're going to use
the same kind of program,
but the key really is
watching the amount of insulin
that she had them on
board and, and lowering your
basals beforehand, doing, you know,
testing before testing right after,
during my longer runs I'll
test during like when I,
I ran a marathon, I
ran Chicago marathon, my first
one this past October. And
I tested about every five
miles and about every five
miles, I, I kind of
find out and I found
this out through my training,
doing the exact same thing
about five miles. I know
if I'm going to go,
you know, which way I'm
going. And then about every
five miles I can either
I can eat something maybe
at the next aid station
I'll take, you know, just,
just water. If I figure
I'm going low, then I
can take some Gatorade or
whatever. But, but that amount
of time was enough that
I could make a decision.
And also, I also knew
that in that amount of
time, I wasn't gonna go,
I wasn't gonna dive down
or, you know, or go,
go that direction. I knew
kind of where I was,
but, but the keys are
lowering your Bazell beforehand. You're
gonna, you have to find
out what works best for
you. And then during the
exercise you're going to have
to test before, during, after.
And then also, as I
talked about just a little
bit ago, you know, later
on the day, what happens.
And the other thing, if
you're just starting out, you're
probably gonna have more lows
when you're just starting out
a new exercise, but once
your body gets used to
that exercise things a level
out. So even now I've
been at this for going
on two, three years, I've,
I've found that now I'm
actually using a little bit,
you know, I, I don't
have to lower it quite
as much as I did
when I first started. So
probably just kind of getting
used to it. So, so
again, it's, it's, it's still
a kind of, it's a
different kind of honeymoon phase,
but it still exists. But
I just want to make
sure that people can kind
of visualize this. Are you,
you're running and you're checking
your blood sugar while you
run, or do you stop
and instant check? I, I
stopped. I actually I've, I've
got a little, a little
race belt and I, and
I have a, the Lancing
device. I had the Lancing
device sort of like taped
on the outside of this
thing. And then I have
a, an ultra mini blood
glucose monitor with couple of
test strips and a Ziploc
bag inside this little pouch.
So as I'm running, I'll
load up a test strip
and wait until it's ready
to go. They'll stop for
a second prick my finger
test. And then away I
go, so it doesn't take
too much time, but that's
kinda the way I handle
it. Yeah. And so you're
running, you're in your shorts,
you've got a belt on
with your Lancet, your test
strips, your blood sugar meter,
and you're wearing your pump
as well on, on a
belt or some kind of
with your tubing and everything
as well. Yes, absolutely. And
then I also have a
couple goo, I like to
take their, and like energy
gels. It's an energy gel.
So it's a really fast
acting carbohydrate, essentially. I will
never ever leave the house
without something like that on
me running. It's just, you
know, if you're type one,
this is a must, she
cannot go out without some
sort of carb on you.
So, you know, if I
test, if I'm running a
little bit low, I don't
like to let myself get
too low. If I'm out
for a run, you know,
maybe one 20, one 30,
one 40, something like that.
If I know if I'm
coming down, I'll go ahead
and have a goo to
try to prevent myself from
going too much lower. I
won't, I generally won't go
back up, but if I
don't eat, I definitely will
go down. So, but yeah,
so I have all that
stuff with me. And this
is all with, you know,
Laura, my basil two hours
before the night before, whenever
I go to bed, I
own my insulin pump. You
can set a Bazell pattern.
So I'll go ahead and
set up my pump to
say, okay, at 4:30 AM, I
need to start lowering it.
So there's a lot of
preparation that goes into this.
This probably isn't the great
effort, you know, the greatest
advertisement for, for exercising. But
as I said before, the,
the benefits definitely outweigh all
the challenges that we have.
Yeah. It's, it's, it's, it's
funny though. There's so many
things that are intuitive to
a diabetic that, that sounds
scary to regular folks. I
mean, the idea that you
don't run, you don't leave
the house without carbohydrates, right?
Oh, absolutely. I mean, I,
I know like, you know,
the one time that I
went to the blockbuster video
to rent a movie without,
so that's, that's the time
I will have a low
blood sugar and I'll find
myself sitting in the parking
lot of a, of a
seven 11, just kind of
like half crawling in to
get a PowerBar. That's just
the Murphy's law of diabetes,
right? Yeah. You know, You
know, it's scary, you know,
you're going out for a
long run and you have
to be careful, or you
will run into a serious
problem. You know, it's, it's
very serious business, but it
can be done. And, you
know, I, I'm a big
proponent of living life to
the max. You know, I,
you know, I have this
disease, it doesn't mean that
I can't go run a
marathon. It doesn't mean that
I can't do other things.
You know, it's just, you
know, it's the hand that
I've been dealt and I
deal with it, you know,
it's a Royal pain, the
butt, but, you know, that's
just the way it is.
So, you know, I don't
let it keep me down.
And, and that's, that's one
of the big things that
kind of keeps me going
and doing this is that,
you know, I've had parents
of children with Tiwan that,
you know, that say that
I'm an inspiration and that
just blows me away. I
just can't even imagine that.
But you know, when I'm
out there just for a
little run and I think,
you know, I, I got
to push through this, you
know, this is kind of,
one of the reasons I
do this is to put
it out there and be
an inspiration for other folks
that, you know, if you're
diagnosed, that doesn't mean you're,
you just have to sit
around and do nothing. There
really are no limitations. Yeah.
I mean, it's all about
planning. I mean, you're, you're
running marathons and triathlons and
I'm traveling all over the
world crossing time zones and
you just do it. I
mean, what else are you
going to do? You could
sit at home, I suppose.
Yeah, exactly. So let's say
that you thought it was
a question I, how to
use Scott. So you've got
a big, big presentation that
you're going to have to
get to, to give. Do
you do anything different on
those kinds of days? Yeah,
I do. It's funny that
you mentioned that. I mean,
giving a big presentation is
not exactly a half marathon,
but like, let me give
you some examples. I was,
I'm going to give a,
be a small part of
a keynote, you know, and
you've got, you know, a
couple of thousand people in
person and then maybe 20,
30, 40,000 people watching online
and then maybe a half
million. That'll watch it later.
It's not something you want
to screw up. So non-diabetics
the night before, like, all
right, you know, this is
great. We're going to be
in this keynote. Let's all
like the whole team. Let's
all go and have steak.
All right, let's go have
steak and potatoes. We'll go
to like, Ruth's Chris steakhouse.
And we'll just really like,
live it up and we'll
all go to bed a
little early. Then I'll go
to bed at 10 and
they'll wake up the next
morning. It will be great.
So they're going to celebrate
the night before by eating.
Right. And I'm, and so
then I say, you know,
I'm going to go to
subway, subway sandwiches. And I
go, what are you, what's
wrong with you? Why are
you going to go to
subway sandwiches? I mean, it's
like, well, tomorrow's important, right?
It's the biggest day of
the year. And I know
how many units of insulin,
a steak and cheese sandwiches,
whether it's a steak and
cheese sandwich from subway that
I buy in Amsterdam or
whether it's when I buy
in Fargo, North Dakota. I mean,
I hope this sounds familiar
to you and it's not
just me that does this.
Oh, absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. Especially
on those bigger kind of
things. You just don't want
to take the risk. Yeah.
I totally understand. You can't
go and have some crazy,
Hey, let's try sushi the
night before a, I don't
know what that'll do to
my blood sugar and while
you're going to be asleep
at 10, I'm going to
be up all night. Right.
Fighting, right. I mean, absolutely,
absolutely Have a donut to
celebrate. Right. And if you
look at a donut like
a crispy cream, not only
is it horrible for you,
but I don't at nine
o'clock, I'm going to be
wrestling with my blood sugar
probably till two or three
in the afternoon for the
pleasure of 30 seconds of
a donut. Absolutely. So I
just don't do that. And
then people tease me. So
I just lean into it,
you know, to be honest
with you, I just lean
into it. I, I take
that, you know, Hanselman flies
to Egypt and goes to
subway kind of running joke.
And I just, I just
say, yeah, well, yeah, you
know, of course I love
subway, you know? I mean,
what else can you do
other than joking, right. I,
yeah. I would love to
have different food, but unless
I did all the math
ahead of time, I just
don't know how I could
do it without risking the
talk. Sometimes I'll even eat
less. I mean, sometimes, you
know, it's really horrible thing
to say, but sometimes it's
just easier not to eat.
Yeah. You know, on, on,
on days that I'm exercising,
you know, if I'm not
I'm training for triathlons. So
I'll swim in the morning
and biking afternoon dealing with
the whole insulin board issue.
I know swimming in the
morning is fine, but then
if I'm going to bike
around 12 or one, I
can't just have a big
lunch at 11. I just
kind of have to take
it easy. And I can't
give myself too much insulin
or I'm going to have
issues on the bike. So
by the time I'm done,
you know, biking at one
or something like that, I
just want to eat. I,
you know, it's just like,
you know, okay, the pressure
is off a little bit.
Now I can, I can
eat. I don't have to
worry about it so much,
but yeah, you're right. Absolutely.
Well, and I think that's
really where we can, where
we can kind of leave
the conversation. I think you
nailed it right there. I
mean, I just, I would
just like to eat just
one day, whatever the heck
I want to, without thinking
about it for six hours
afterwards. Absolutely. Yeah. Well, thanks
a lot for coming on
and talking to me about
this. I mean, I it's,
it's just nice to see
people that, that can do
marathons and can do triathlons.
And it reminds me that
I just need to get
off my ass and I
thank you for that reminder.
I really do. All right.
Thanks for having me, Scott.
I appreciate it. This has
been another episode of Hansel
minutes. So you, again, next
time .